source/installation/oasis.rst, before:

Install OASIS3-MCT
==================

Let us first **retrieve the library's code**:

.. code:: bash

   bash $TRAINING/scripts/prepare_oasis.sh


Then **get to the created directory**, then to the folder in it dedicated to installation:

.. code:: bash

   cd $OASIS
   cd util/make_dir


From here, you should see many examples of ``make.*`` files, containing compilation
dependencies adapted to various setups.

.. tab-set::

   .. tab-item:: HILO

      .. dropdown:: ``make.intel19_hilo``

         .. code:: make

            #
            # Include file for OASIS3 Makefile for a Linux system using
            # Portland Group Fortran Compiler and MPICH
            #
            ###############################################################################
            #
            # CHAN	: communication technique used in OASIS3 (MPI1/MPI2)
            CHAN    = MPI1
            #
            # Paths for libraries, object files and binaries
            #
            # COUPLE	: path for oasis3-mct main directory
            COUPLE  = $(OASIS)
            #
            # ARCHDIR       : directory created when compiling
            ARCHDIR = $(COUPLE)/intel19_hilo
            #
            # MPI library (see the file /etc/modulefiles/mpi/openmpi-x86_64)
            MPIDIR      = /work/apps/intel/mvapich2/2.3.6/
            MPIBIN      = $(MPIDIR)/bin
            MPI_INCLUDE = $(MPIDIR)/include
            MPILIB      = -L$(MPIDIR)/lib
            MPIRUN      = $(MPIBIN)/mpirun
            #
            # NETCDF library of the system
            NETCDF_INCLUDE = -I/work/apps/intel_2016/netcdf/4.6.1/include -I$(PNETCDF_INC)
            NETCDF_LIBRARY = -Wl,-rpath,/work/apps/intel_2016/netcdf/4.6.1/lib -L/work/apps/intel_2016/netcdf/4.6.1/lib -lnetcdff -lnetcdf $(PNETCDF_LIB)/libpnetcdf.a
            #
            # Compiling and other commands
            MAKE        = gmake
            F90         = $(MPIBIN)/mpifort -I$(MPI_INCLUDE)
            F           = $(F90)
            f90         = $(F90)
            f           = $(F90)
            CC          = $(MPIBIN)/mpicc -I$(MPI_INCLUDE)
            LD          = $(MPIBIN)/mpifort $(MPI_LIB)
            # Static libraries compilation options
            STATOPT     =
            # Shared libraries options
            DYNOPT      = -fPIC
            LDDYNOPT    = -shared
            # Static archiver
            AR          = ar
            ARFLAGS     = -ruv
            #
            # CPP keys and compiler options
            #
            CPPDEF    = -Duse_comm_$(CHAN) -D__VERBOSE -DTREAT_OVERLAY
            #
            #
            #F90FLAGS_1  = -g -ffree-line-length-0 -fbounds-check -fopenmp
            F90FLAGS_1  = -g -traceback -O2 -xAVX -I. -assume byterecl
            f90FLAGS_1  = $(F90FLAGS_1)
            FFLAGS_1    = $(F90FLAGS_1)
            fFLAGS_1    = $(F90FLAGS_1)
            CCFLAGS_1   =
            LDFLAGS     = $(F90FLAGS_1)
            #
            #
            ###################
            #
            # Additional definitions that should not be changed
            #
            FLIBS		= $(NETCDF_LIBRARY)
            # BINDIR        : directory for executables
            BINDIR          = $(ARCHDIR)/bin
            # LIBBUILD      : contains a directory for each library
            LIBBUILD        = $(ARCHDIR)/build/lib
            # INCPSMILE     : includes all *o and *mod for each library
            INCPSMILE       = -I$(LIBBUILD)/psmile.$(CHAN) -I$(LIBBUILD)/scrip -I$(LIBBUILD)/mct

            F90FLAGS  = $(F90FLAGS_1) $(CPPDEF) $(INCPSMILE) $(NETCDF_INCLUDE)
            f90FLAGS  = $(f90FLAGS_1) $(CPPDEF) $(INCPSMILE) $(NETCDF_INCLUDE)
            FFLAGS    = $(FFLAGS_1) $(CPPDEF) $(INCPSMILE) $(NETCDF_INCLUDE)
            fFLAGS    = $(fFLAGS_1) $(CPPDEF) $(INCPSMILE) $(NETCDF_INCLUDE)
            CCFLAGS   = $(CCFLAGS_1) $(CPPDEF) $(INCPSMILE) $(NETCDF_INCLUDE)
            LDFLAGS   = $(F90FLAGS_1)
            #
            #############################################################################



      Then, **include** ``make.intel19_hilo`` **in** ``make.inc``:

      .. dropdown:: ``make.inc``

         .. code:: make

            #
            # System dependent settings
            #
            ##### User configurable options #####
            #
            # Note: The absolute path name must be indicated.
            #
            # Note: Choose one of these includes files and modify it according to your
            #       local settings. Replace the currently active file with your own.
            #
            include $(OASIS)/util/make_dir/make.intel19_hilo
            #
            ### End User configurable options ###


   .. tab-item:: CALMIP

      Our setup is based on ``intel18``. We thus named our include file
      ``make.intel18_calmip``. **Make sure this file has the content shown below**:

      .. dropdown:: ``make.intel18_calmip``

         .. code:: make

            #
            # Include file for OASIS3 Makefile for a Linux system using
            # Portland Group Fortran Compiler and MPICH
            #
            ###############################################################################
            #
            # CHAN	: communication technique used in OASIS3 (MPI1/MPI2)
            CHAN    = MPI1
            #
            # Paths for libraries, object files and binaries
            #
            # COUPLE	: path for oasis3-mct main directory
            COUPLE  = $(OASIS)
            #
            # ARCHDIR       : directory created when compiling
            ARCHDIR = $(COUPLE)/intel18_calmip
            #
            # MPI library (see the file /etc/modulefiles/mpi/openmpi-x86_64)
            MPIDIR      = /usr/local/intel/2018.2.046/impi/2018.2.199/intel64
            MPIBIN      = $(MPIDIR)/bin
            MPI_INCLUDE = $(MPIDIR)/include
            MPILIB      = -L$(MPIDIR)/lib
            #
            # NETCDF library of the system
            NETCDF_INCLUDE = -I/usr/local/netcdf/4.7.4-intelmpi/include -I/usr/local/pnetcdf/1.9.0/include
            NETCDF_LIBRARY = -L/usr/local/netcdf/4.7.4-intelmpi/lib -lnetcdff -Wl,-rpath,/usr/local/intel/2018.2.046/compilers_and_libraries/linux/lib/intel64 -Wl,-rpath,/usr/local/hdf5/1.10.2/intel_mpi/lib -lnetcdf -lnetcdf /usr/local/pnetcdf/1.9.0/lib/libpnetcdf.a

            #
            # Compiling and other commands
            MAKE        = gmake
            F90         = $(MPIBIN)/mpiifort -I$(MPI_INCLUDE)
            F           = $(F90)
            f90         = $(F90)
            f           = $(F90)
            CC          = $(MPIBIN)/mpiicc -I$(MPI_INCLUDE)
            LD          = $(MPIBIN)/mpiifort $(MPILIB)
            # Static libraries compilation options
            STATOPT     =
            # Shared libraries options
            DYNOPT      = -fPIC
            LDDYNOPT    = -shared
            # Static archiver
            AR          = ar
            ARFLAGS     = -ruv
            #
            # CPP keys and compiler options
            #
            CPPDEF    = -Duse_comm_$(CHAN) -D__VERBOSE -DTREAT_OVERLAY
            #
            #
            #F90FLAGS_1  = -g -ffree-line-length-0 -fbounds-check -fopenmp
            F90FLAGS_1  = -g -traceback -O2 -xAVX -I. -assume byterecl -mt_mpi
            f90FLAGS_1  = $(F90FLAGS_1)
            FFLAGS_1    = $(F90FLAGS_1)
            fFLAGS_1    = $(F90FLAGS_1)
            CCFLAGS_1   =
            LDFLAGS     = $(F90FLAGS_1)
            #
            #
            ###################
            #
            # Additional definitions that should not be changed
            #
            FLIBS		= $(NETCDF_LIBRARY)
            # BINDIR        : directory for executables
            BINDIR          = $(ARCHDIR)/bin
            # LIBBUILD      : contains a directory for each library
            LIBBUILD        = $(ARCHDIR)/build/lib
            # INCPSMILE     : includes all *o and *mod for each library
            INCPSMILE       = -I$(LIBBUILD)/psmile.$(CHAN) -I$(LIBBUILD)/scrip -I$(LIBBUILD)/mct

            F90FLAGS  = $(F90FLAGS_1) $(CPPDEF) $(INCPSMILE) $(NETCDF_INCLUDE)
            f90FLAGS  = $(f90FLAGS_1) $(CPPDEF) $(INCPSMILE) $(NETCDF_INCLUDE)
            FFLAGS    = $(FFLAGS_1) $(CPPDEF) $(INCPSMILE) $(NETCDF_INCLUDE)
            fFLAGS    = $(fFLAGS_1) $(CPPDEF) $(INCPSMILE) $(NETCDF_INCLUDE)
            CCFLAGS   = $(CCFLAGS_1) $(CPPDEF) $(INCPSMILE) $(NETCDF_INCLUDE)
            LDFLAGS   = $(F90FLAGS_1)
            #
            #############################################################################


      Then, **include** ``make.intel18_calmip`` **in** ``make.inc``:

      .. dropdown:: ``make.inc``

         .. code:: make

            #
            # System dependent settings
            #
            ##### User configurable options #####
            #
            # Note: The absolute path name must be indicated.
            #
            # Note: Choose one of these includes files and modify it according to your
            #       local settings. Replace the currently active file with your own.
            #
            include $(OASIS)/util/make_dir/make.intel18_calmip
            #
            ### End User configurable options ###


.. important::

   The use of the ``$(OASIS)`` macro in the files above relies on its existence thanks
   to you sourcing the ``config.sh`` file after connecting to the cluster. In realistic
   conditions, make sure to replace ``$(OASIS)`` by the actual path to the location of
   your ``oasis3-mct``.


Once those files are configured as indicated, **compile** with the following command:

.. code:: bash

   make -f TopMakefileOasis3


.. admonition:: Cleaning command

   To restart compilation from scratch, run the command below before recompiling:

   .. code:: bash

      make -f TopMakefileOasis3 realclean

Commit message:

content: Missed a HILO-adapted sentence

source/installation/oasis.rst, after:

Install OASIS3-MCT
==================

Let us first **retrieve the library's code**:

.. code:: bash

   bash $TRAINING/scripts/prepare_oasis.sh


Then **get to the created directory**, then to the folder in it dedicated to installation:

.. code:: bash

   cd $OASIS
   cd util/make_dir


From here, you should see many examples of ``make.*`` files, containing compilation
dependencies adapted to various setups.

.. tab-set::

   .. tab-item:: HILO

      Our setup is based on ``intel19``. We thus named our include file
      ``make.intel19_hilo``. **Make sure this file has the content shown below**:

      .. dropdown:: ``make.intel19_hilo``

         .. code:: make

            #
            # Include file for OASIS3 Makefile for a Linux system using
            # Portland Group Fortran Compiler and MPICH
            #
            ###############################################################################
            #
            # CHAN	: communication technique used in OASIS3 (MPI1/MPI2)
            CHAN    = MPI1
            #
            # Paths for libraries, object files and binaries
            #
            # COUPLE	: path for oasis3-mct main directory
            COUPLE  = $(OASIS)
            #
            # ARCHDIR       : directory created when compiling
            ARCHDIR = $(COUPLE)/intel19_hilo
            #
            # MPI library (see the file /etc/modulefiles/mpi/openmpi-x86_64)
            MPIDIR      = /work/apps/intel/mvapich2/2.3.6/
            MPIBIN      = $(MPIDIR)/bin
            MPI_INCLUDE = $(MPIDIR)/include
            MPILIB      = -L$(MPIDIR)/lib
            MPIRUN      = $(MPIBIN)/mpirun
            #
            # NETCDF library of the system
            NETCDF_INCLUDE = -I/work/apps/intel_2016/netcdf/4.6.1/include -I$(PNETCDF_INC)
            NETCDF_LIBRARY = -Wl,-rpath,/work/apps/intel_2016/netcdf/4.6.1/lib -L/work/apps/intel_2016/netcdf/4.6.1/lib -lnetcdff -lnetcdf $(PNETCDF_LIB)/libpnetcdf.a
            #
            # Compiling and other commands
            MAKE        = gmake
            F90         = $(MPIBIN)/mpifort -I$(MPI_INCLUDE)
            F           = $(F90)
            f90         = $(F90)
            f           = $(F90)
            CC          = $(MPIBIN)/mpicc -I$(MPI_INCLUDE)
            LD          = $(MPIBIN)/mpifort $(MPI_LIB)
            # Static libraries compilation options
            STATOPT     =
            # Shared libraries options
            DYNOPT      = -fPIC
            LDDYNOPT    = -shared
            # Static archiver
            AR          = ar
            ARFLAGS     = -ruv
            #
            # CPP keys and compiler options
            #
            CPPDEF    = -Duse_comm_$(CHAN) -D__VERBOSE -DTREAT_OVERLAY
            #
            #
            #F90FLAGS_1  = -g -ffree-line-length-0 -fbounds-check -fopenmp
            F90FLAGS_1  = -g -traceback -O2 -xAVX -I. -assume byterecl
            f90FLAGS_1  = $(F90FLAGS_1)
            FFLAGS_1    = $(F90FLAGS_1)
            fFLAGS_1    = $(F90FLAGS_1)
            CCFLAGS_1   =
            LDFLAGS     = $(F90FLAGS_1)
            #
            #
            ###################
            #
            # Additional definitions that should not be changed
            #
            FLIBS		= $(NETCDF_LIBRARY)
            # BINDIR        : directory for executables
            BINDIR          = $(ARCHDIR)/bin
            # LIBBUILD      : contains a directory for each library
            LIBBUILD        = $(ARCHDIR)/build/lib
            # INCPSMILE     : includes all *o and *mod for each library
            INCPSMILE       = -I$(LIBBUILD)/psmile.$(CHAN) -I$(LIBBUILD)/scrip -I$(LIBBUILD)/mct

            F90FLAGS  = $(F90FLAGS_1) $(CPPDEF) $(INCPSMILE) $(NETCDF_INCLUDE)
            f90FLAGS  = $(f90FLAGS_1) $(CPPDEF) $(INCPSMILE) $(NETCDF_INCLUDE)
            FFLAGS    = $(FFLAGS_1) $(CPPDEF) $(INCPSMILE) $(NETCDF_INCLUDE)
            fFLAGS    = $(fFLAGS_1) $(CPPDEF) $(INCPSMILE) $(NETCDF_INCLUDE)
            CCFLAGS   = $(CCFLAGS_1) $(CPPDEF) $(INCPSMILE) $(NETCDF_INCLUDE)
            LDFLAGS   = $(F90FLAGS_1)
            #
            #############################################################################



      Then, **include** ``make.intel19_hilo`` **in** ``make.inc``:

      .. dropdown:: ``make.inc``

         .. code:: make

            #
            # System dependent settings
            #
            ##### User configurable options #####
            #
            # Note: The absolute path name must be indicated.
            #
            # Note: Choose one of these includes files and modify it according to your
            #       local settings. Replace the currently active file with your own.
            #
            include $(OASIS)/util/make_dir/make.intel19_hilo
            #
            ### End User configurable options ###


   .. tab-item:: CALMIP

      Our setup is based on ``intel18``. We thus named our include file
      ``make.intel18_calmip``. **Make sure this file has the content shown below**:

      .. dropdown:: ``make.intel18_calmip``

         .. code:: make

            #
            # Include file for OASIS3 Makefile for a Linux system using
            # Portland Group Fortran Compiler and MPICH
            #
            ###############################################################################
            #
            # CHAN	: communication technique used in OASIS3 (MPI1/MPI2)
            CHAN    = MPI1
            #
            # Paths for libraries, object files and binaries
            #
            # COUPLE	: path for oasis3-mct main directory
            COUPLE  = $(OASIS)
            #
            # ARCHDIR       : directory created when compiling
            ARCHDIR = $(COUPLE)/intel18_calmip
            #
            # MPI library (see the file /etc/modulefiles/mpi/openmpi-x86_64)
            MPIDIR      = /usr/local/intel/2018.2.046/impi/2018.2.199/intel64
            MPIBIN      = $(MPIDIR)/bin
            MPI_INCLUDE = $(MPIDIR)/include
            MPILIB      = -L$(MPIDIR)/lib
            #
            # NETCDF library of the system
            NETCDF_INCLUDE = -I/usr/local/netcdf/4.7.4-intelmpi/include -I/usr/local/pnetcdf/1.9.0/include
            NETCDF_LIBRARY = -L/usr/local/netcdf/4.7.4-intelmpi/lib -lnetcdff -Wl,-rpath,/usr/local/intel/2018.2.046/compilers_and_libraries/linux/lib/intel64 -Wl,-rpath,/usr/local/hdf5/1.10.2/intel_mpi/lib -lnetcdf -lnetcdf /usr/local/pnetcdf/1.9.0/lib/libpnetcdf.a

            #
            # Compiling and other commands
            MAKE        = gmake
            F90         = $(MPIBIN)/mpiifort -I$(MPI_INCLUDE)
            F           = $(F90)
            f90         = $(F90)
            f           = $(F90)
            CC          = $(MPIBIN)/mpiicc -I$(MPI_INCLUDE)
            LD          = $(MPIBIN)/mpiifort $(MPILIB)
            # Static libraries compilation options
            STATOPT     =
            # Shared libraries options
            DYNOPT      = -fPIC
            LDDYNOPT    = -shared
            # Static archiver
            AR          = ar
            ARFLAGS     = -ruv
            #
            # CPP keys and compiler options
            #
            CPPDEF    = -Duse_comm_$(CHAN) -D__VERBOSE -DTREAT_OVERLAY
            #
            #
            #F90FLAGS_1  = -g -ffree-line-length-0 -fbounds-check -fopenmp
            F90FLAGS_1  = -g -traceback -O2 -xAVX -I. -assume byterecl -mt_mpi
            f90FLAGS_1  = $(F90FLAGS_1)
            FFLAGS_1    = $(F90FLAGS_1)
            fFLAGS_1    = $(F90FLAGS_1)
            CCFLAGS_1   =
            LDFLAGS     = $(F90FLAGS_1)
            #
            #
            ###################
            #
            # Additional definitions that should not be changed
            #
            FLIBS		= $(NETCDF_LIBRARY)
            # BINDIR        : directory for executables
            BINDIR          = $(ARCHDIR)/bin
            # LIBBUILD      : contains a directory for each library
            LIBBUILD        = $(ARCHDIR)/build/lib
            # INCPSMILE     : includes all *o and *mod for each library
            INCPSMILE       = -I$(LIBBUILD)/psmile.$(CHAN) -I$(LIBBUILD)/scrip -I$(LIBBUILD)/mct

            F90FLAGS  = $(F90FLAGS_1) $(CPPDEF) $(INCPSMILE) $(NETCDF_INCLUDE)
            f90FLAGS  = $(f90FLAGS_1) $(CPPDEF) $(INCPSMILE) $(NETCDF_INCLUDE)
            FFLAGS    = $(FFLAGS_1) $(CPPDEF) $(INCPSMILE) $(NETCDF_INCLUDE)
            fFLAGS    = $(fFLAGS_1) $(CPPDEF) $(INCPSMILE) $(NETCDF_INCLUDE)
            CCFLAGS   = $(CCFLAGS_1) $(CPPDEF) $(INCPSMILE) $(NETCDF_INCLUDE)
            LDFLAGS   = $(F90FLAGS_1)
            #
            #############################################################################


      Then, **include** ``make.intel18_calmip`` **in** ``make.inc``:

      .. dropdown:: ``make.inc``

         .. code:: make

            #
            # System dependent settings
            #
            ##### User configurable options #####
            #
            # Note: The absolute path name must be indicated.
            #
            # Note: Choose one of these includes files and modify it according to your
            #       local settings. Replace the currently active file with your own.
            #
            include $(OASIS)/util/make_dir/make.intel18_calmip
            #
            ### End User configurable options ###


.. important::

   The use of the ``$(OASIS)`` macro in the files above relies on its existence thanks
   to you sourcing the ``config.sh`` file after connecting to the cluster. In realistic
   conditions, make sure to replace ``$(OASIS)`` by the actual path to the location of
   your ``oasis3-mct``.


Once those files are configured as indicated, **compile** with the following command:

.. code:: bash

   make -f TopMakefileOasis3


.. admonition:: Cleaning command

   To restart compilation from scratch, run the command below before recompiling:

   .. code:: bash

      make -f TopMakefileOasis3 realclean
