source/coupling/run/spinup.rst, before:

Spinup
======

With our initialization files ready, let us prepare and run a spinup simulation.

.. note::

   In a realistic setup, the duration of a spinup run depends on each model and is often
   dimensioned by the time required by the ocean to stabilize its domain-integrated
   turbulent kinetic energy. It should be about within the several months to 1 year
   interval, depending on the domain size.


First, **copy the namelist, notebook and job files**, using the ``cpl_spinup`` suffix:

.. code:: bash

   cd $RUN
   cp regcm/namelist-cpl_init.f regcm/namelist-cpl_spinup.f
   cp -r symphonie/NOTEBOOKS-cpl_init symphonie/NOTEBOOKS-cpl_spinup
   mv job.sh job-init.sh
   cp job-init.sh job-spinup.sh


And continue **renaming** key parameters to point to the newly copied files:

* Set the job file's ``--job-name`` to ``spinup``.
* Rename the input of RegCM in the job file to ``regcm/namelist-cpl_spinup.f``.
* For SYMPHONIE, keep ``notebook_list.f`` in ``job-spinup.sh``, but instead change the ``notebook_list.f``'s ``directory`` to ``symphonie/NOTEBOOKS-cpl_spinup``.


Then, let us configure our spinup simulation by following the dropdown sections below.

.. dropdown:: 1. Simulation period and restart files

   Plans are to make the simulation run from 2018-07-03 to 2018-07-17, i.e., two
   weeks, with one week for spinup and one week for production. The **spinup run is thus
   from 2018-07-03 to 2018-07-10**, but RegCM's global dates must cover the whole period,
   like we did for the :doc:`uncoupled setup <../../component-wise/regcm/preprocess>`.

   Change RegCM's ``gdate*`` to:

   .. code:: fortran

      gdate1 = 2018070300,        ! Start date for ICBC data generation
      gdate2 = 2018071700,        ! End data for ICBC data generation


   and the ``restartparam`` namelist as follows:

   .. code:: fortran

      !
      ! Model start/restart control
      !
      &restartparam
       ifrest  = .false.,    ! If a restart
       mdate0  = 2018070300, ! Global start (is globidate1)
       mdate1  = 2018070300, ! Start date of this run
       mdate2  = 2018071000, ! End date for this run
      /


   Also adapt SYMPHONIE's ``datesim`` in ``notebook_time.f``, and OASIS's ``$RUNTIME``
   in ``namcouple`` (with one week in seconds, i.e., 604800).

   Lastly, make sure the right restart files are accounted for by adding this line to
   ``job-spinup.sh``, just before launching:

   .. code:: bash

      cp -p oasis/restart_20180703/*.nc .


   Of course, this goes with a ``namcouple`` ``$NNOREST`` section set to ``F`` (false).


.. dropdown:: 2. Securing grid files

   OASIS grid files has already been written by the
   :doc:`initialization run <initialize>`, thus we can **reuse them** instead of
   overwriting them with each simulation.

   Disable the ``l_write_grids`` logicals for RegCM and SYMPHONIE, then add the
   following line to the job file, besides those about restart files:

   .. code:: bash

      cp -p oasis/{areas,grids,masks}.nc .


.. dropdown:: 3. Configuring air-sea flux coupling for the models

   In comparison with the :doc:`initialization <initialize>` when only exporting fields
   were enabled, we now **enable exporting AND importing fields**. Adapt ``oasisparam``
   for RegCM and ``notebook_oasis_generic.f`` for SYMPHONIE accordingly, enabling the
   following:

   * **RegCM:**
      * ``l_cpl_im_sst``
      * ``l_cpl_ex_slp``
      * ``l_cpl_ex_taux``
      * ``l_cpl_ex_tauy``
      * ``l_cpl_ex_prec``
      * ``l_cpl_ex_ulhf``
      * ``l_cpl_ex_ushf``
      * ``l_cpl_ex_nulw``
      * ``l_cpl_ex_ndsw``
   * **SYMPHONIE** (in ``notebook_oasis_generic.f``):
      * ``l_cpl_im_slp``
      * ``l_cpl_im_taux``
      * ``l_cpl_im_tauy``
      * ``l_cpl_im_prec``
      * ``l_cpl_im_slhf``
      * ``l_cpl_im_sshf``
      * ``l_cpl_im_snsf``
      * ``l_cpl_im_ssrf``
      * ``l_cpl_ex_sst``

   In addition, we need to tell SYMPHONIE that it will retrieve its sea-surface fluxes
   from OASIS, instead of using external data. This is done by modifying
   ``flag_meteodata`` in ``notebook_airseaflux_s26.f``:

   .. code:: fortran

      flag_meteodata='oasisflux'       ! Meteorological model key (ecmwf glorys
                                       !                          [oasisflux oasisbulk])


.. dropdown:: 4. Minimizing outputs

   A spinup run is not typically a simulation we need very detailed outputs from. The
   models will stabilize, and **what we want to do is simply be able to check whether
   the simulation is going well, rather than to get terabytes of data for conducting
   complex analyses**. This way, we will configure a minimum number of outputs for this
   spinup run, planning to enable more/increase their frequency for the production run.

   .. tab-set::

      .. tab-item:: RegCM

         Open ``namelist-cpl_spinup.f`` and go to the ``outparam`` namelist. Let us
         only keep ``SAV`` (needed for restarting) and ``SRF`` outputs, and degrade
         the ``SRF`` output period to 12 hours:

         .. code:: fortran

            prestr  =     '',   ! string to prepend to output file names
            ifcordex = .false., ! Restrict to possible CORDEX variables
            outnwf  =     0.,   ! Day interval to open new files (0 = monthly)
            ifsave  = .true.,   ! Create SAV files for restart
            savfrq  =     0.,   ! Frequency in days to create them (0 = monthly)
            ifatm   = .false.,  ! Output ATM ?
            atmfrq  =     6.,   ! Frequency in hours to write to ATM
            ifrad   = .false.,  ! Output RAD ?
            radfrq  =     6.,   ! Frequency in hours to write to RAD
            ifsrf   = .true.,   ! Output SRF ?
            srffrq  =    12.,   ! Frequency in hours to write to SRF
            ifsts   = .false.,  ! Output STS (frequence is daily) ?
            ifshf   = .false.,  ! Output SHF (frequence is hourly) ?
            ifsub   = .false.,  ! Output SUB ?
            subfrq  =     6.,   ! Frequency in hours to write to SUB
            iflak   = .false.,  ! Output LAK ?
            lakfrq  =     6.,   ! Frequency in hours to write to LAK
            ifchem  = .false.,  ! Output CHE ?
            ifopt   = .false.,  ! Output OPT ?
            chemfrq =     6.,   ! Frequency in hours to write to CHE


      .. tab-item:: SYMPHONIE's ``GRAPHICS``

         ``GRAPHICS`` outputs are for instanteneous variables.
         Let us completely disable it.

         In ``NOTEBOOKS-cpl_spinup``, open ``notebook_graph``. Change the output period
         to a number of days that exceeds our simulation period, e.g., 30. Also, set to
         0 all variable switches below. The top of the file should look like this:

         .. code:: fortran

            ********************************************************************************
            Output fields for graphics:
            ./symphonie/GRAPHICS/                                             DIRGRAPH
            100 ! dim_varid
            1   ! 1> regular in time  2> dates defined in notebook_dateoutput    IDATE_OUTPUT
            30  ! 0.0416666666666666  ! gives the periodicity (in days) if the previous line = 1
            Note: the related subroutines are graph_out.F90 and netcdf.F90
            ********************************************************************************
            30 2D horizontal scalar variables                        GRH_NB
            0  Longwave, shortwave, heat fluxes                   1               GRH_OUT_VAR
            0  ssh tide amplitude harmonics                       2
            0  ssh tide phase harmonics                           3
            0  tide potential amplitude harmonics                 4
            ...


      .. tab-item:: SYMPHONIE's ``OFFLINE``

         ``OFFLINE`` outputs are for averaged fields. Let us set up a daily frequency
         for the spinup run, planning to refine this frequency for production.

         In ``NOTEBOOKS-cpl_spinup``,
         open ``notebook_offline.f``: you should see plain text lines at the very end
         of it, defining a period and a date. Set this part to one single line, stating
         a periodicity of 24 hours until 2018-07-10:

         .. code::

            Note: 1- no outputs if periodicity <=0
                  2- When the lastest date is passed, we continue with the latest periodicity
            DO NOT MODIFY THE NEXT LINE AS IT IS THE SIGNAL EXPECTED BY S TO START THE TIME LIST!!!!
            Periodicity (hours) ! until yyyy / mm / dd / hh / mm / ss ! Don't touch this line
            24.                         2018   07   10   00   00   00


   .. tip::

      This strategy of disabling most outputs for the spinup can be very helpful in
      cases when writting out data takes time and/or space. For instance, if you run
      aerosols and atmospheric chemistry in RegCM, you should know how
      resource-consuming are chemistry and optics outputs. Disabling outputting these
      during such a run's spinup is thus a game changer.


.. dropdown:: 5. Configuring the ``namcouple`` in ``EXPORTED`` mode

   After linking every enabled coupling field between RegCM and SYMPHONIE, taking care
   of grid dimensions, signs, units and interpolations, the ``namcouple`` for this
   spinup run should be this:

   .. code::

      # This is a typical input file for OASIS3-MCT.
      # Keywords used in previous versions of OASIS3
      # but now obsolete are marked "Not used"
      # Don't hesitate to ask precisions or make suggestions (oasishelp@cerfacs.fr).
      #
      # Any line beginning with # is ignored. Blank lines are not allowed.
      #
      ################### -= FIRST SECTION =- ###################################
      $NNOREST
      # T (true) or F (false): make the restart file facultative, i.e. if absent
      # fields are initialized with zero values
      #
        F
      #--------------------------------------------------------------------------
      $NFIELDS
      # >= total number of field entries
      #
        5
      #--------------------------------------------------------------------------
      $RUNTIME
      # The total simulated time for this run in seconds
      #
        604800
      #--------------------------------------------------------------------------
      $NLOGPRT
      # Amount of information written to OASIS3-MCT log files (see User Guide)
      #
        0  0  0
      ################### -= SECOND SECTION =- ##################################
      $STRINGS
      # The above variables are the general parameters for the experiment.
      # Everything below has to do with the fields being exchanged.
      #
        RCM_TAUX:RCM_TAUY:RCM_NDSW SYM_TAUX:SYM_TAUY:SYM_SSRF 1 3600 2 restart_tau-sw.nc EXPORTED
        58 58 300 300 rcim symt LAG=+180
        R  0  R  0
        LOCTRANS SCRIPR
        AVERAGE
        BILINEAR LR SCALAR LATLON 1
      #
        RCM_PREC SYM_PREC 1 3600 3 restart_PREC.nc EXPORTED
        58 58 300 300 rcim symt LAG=+180
        R  0  R  0
        LOCTRANS BLASOLD SCRIPR
        AVERAGE
        0.001 0
        BILINEAR LR SCALAR LATLON 1
      #
        RCM_ULHF:RCM_USHF:RCM_NULW SYM_SLHF:SYM_SSHF:SYM_SNSF 1 3600 3 restart_lat-sens-lw.nc EXPORTED
        58 58 300 300 rcim symt LAG=+180
        R  0  R  0
        LOCTRANS BLASOLD SCRIPR
        AVERAGE
        -1 0
        BILINEAR LR SCALAR LATLON 1
      #
        RCM_SLP SYM_SLP 1 3600 2 restart_SLP.nc EXPORTED
        60 60 300 300 rcem symt LAG=+180
        R  0  R  0
        LOCTRANS SCRIPR
        AVERAGE
        BILINEAR LR SCALAR LATLON 1
      #
        SYM_SST RCM_SST 1 3600 2 restart_SST.nc EXPORTED
        300 300 58 58 symt rcim LAG=+180
        R  0  R  0
        LOCTRANS SCRIPR
        AVERAGE
        BILINEAR LR SCALAR LATLON 1
      ###########################################################################


Once all of this is set up, **save the** ``namcouple`` **file** with:

.. code:: bash

   cp namcouple oasis/namcouple-spinup


And now, ``job-spinup.sh`` should now look like this:

.. dropdown:: ``job-spinup.sh``

   .. tab-set::

      .. tab-item:: HILO

         .. code:: bash

            #!/bin/bash

            #SBATCH --job-name=spinup
            #SBATCH --partition='broadwell'
            #SBATCH --ntasks=80
            #SBATCH --cpus-per-task=1
            #SBATCH --time=25:00
            #SBATCH --output=slurm_%x-id_%j.out
            #SBATCH --error=slurm_%x-id_%j.err

            EXE1=regcm/bin/regcmMPICLM45_OASIS
            NPROC1=40
            INPUT1=regcm/namelist-cpl_spinup.f
            #
            EXE2=symphonie/bin/OASIS/symphonie.exe
            NPROC2=40
            INPUT2=symphonie/notebook_list.f

            ulimit -s unlimited

            module purge
            module load slurm/21.08.5
            module load intel/2019.u5
            module load hdf5/1.8.15p1_intel_64
            module load mvapich2/2.3.6_intel
            module load netcdf/4.6.1_intel_64
            module load PnetCDF/1.9.0_intel_64
            module list 2>./run_modules

            cp -p oasis/restart_20180703/*.nc .
            cp -p oasis/{areas,grids,masks}.nc .

            echo -e "Launching...\n"

            mpiexec.hydra -np $NPROC1 $EXE1 $INPUT1 : -np $NPROC2 $EXE2 $INPUT2


      .. tab-item:: CALMIP

         .. code:: bash

            #!/bin/bash

            #SBATCH --job-name=spinup
            #SBATCH --nodes=2
            #SBATCH --ntasks-per-node=36
            #SBATCH --ntasks-per-core=1
            #SBATCH --time=20:00
            #SBATCH --output=slurm_%x-id_%j.out
            #SBATCH --error=slurm_%x-id_%j.err

            EXE1=regcm/bin/regcmMPICLM45_OASIS
            NPROC1=36
            INPUT1=regcm/namelist-cpl_spinup.f
            #
            EXE2=symphonie/bin/OASIS/symphonie.exe
            NPROC2=36
            INPUT2=symphonie/notebook_list.f

            ulimit -s unlimited

            module purge
            module load intel/18.2
            module load intelmpi/18.2
            module load hdf5/1.10.2-intelmpi
            module load netcdf/4.7.4-intelmpi
            module load pnetcdf/1.9.0-intelmpi
            module list 2>./run_modules

            cp -p oasis/restart_20180703/*.nc .
            cp -p oasis/{areas,grids,masks}.nc .

            echo -e "Launching...\n"

            mpiexec.hydra -np $NPROC1 $EXE1 $INPUT1 : -np $NPROC2 $EXE2 $INPUT2


Make sure to empty SYMPHONIE's ``tmp`` folder, then **submit the job** and wait for
its completion.

Once completed, you should notice the files generated by the ``SCRIPR`` interpolation
library:

.. code:: console

   $ ls -1 rmp*.nc
   rmp_rcem_to_symt_BILINEAR.nc
   rmp_rcim_to_symt_BILINEAR.nc
   rmp_symt_to_rcim_BILINEAR.nc


**Save those files**, as well as the restart files written at the end of the simulation:

.. code:: bash

   mv rmp*.nc oasis/
   mkdir oasis/restart_20180710
   mv restart*.nc oasis/restart_20180710/


You ``oasis`` folder should now look like this:

.. code:: console

   $ ls -1 oasis
   areas.nc
   grids.nc
   masks.nc
   namcouple-init
   namcouple-spinup
   restart_20180703
   restart_20180710
   rmp_rcem_to_symt_BILINEAR.nc
   rmp_rcim_to_symt_BILINEAR.nc
   rmp_symt_to_rcim_BILINEAR.nc

Commit message:

fix: SYMPHONIE OFFLINE output frequency

source/coupling/run/spinup.rst, after:

Spinup
======

With our initialization files ready, let us prepare and run a spinup simulation.

.. note::

   In a realistic setup, the duration of a spinup run depends on each model and is often
   dimensioned by the time required by the ocean to stabilize its domain-integrated
   turbulent kinetic energy. It should be about within the several months to 1 year
   interval, depending on the domain size.


First, **copy the namelist, notebook and job files**, using the ``cpl_spinup`` suffix:

.. code:: bash

   cd $RUN
   cp regcm/namelist-cpl_init.f regcm/namelist-cpl_spinup.f
   cp -r symphonie/NOTEBOOKS-cpl_init symphonie/NOTEBOOKS-cpl_spinup
   mv job.sh job-init.sh
   cp job-init.sh job-spinup.sh


And continue **renaming** key parameters to point to the newly copied files:

* Set the job file's ``--job-name`` to ``spinup``.
* Rename the input of RegCM in the job file to ``regcm/namelist-cpl_spinup.f``.
* For SYMPHONIE, keep ``notebook_list.f`` in ``job-spinup.sh``, but instead change the ``notebook_list.f``'s ``directory`` to ``symphonie/NOTEBOOKS-cpl_spinup``.


Then, let us configure our spinup simulation by following the dropdown sections below.

.. dropdown:: 1. Simulation period and restart files

   Plans are to make the simulation run from 2018-07-03 to 2018-07-17, i.e., two
   weeks, with one week for spinup and one week for production. The **spinup run is thus
   from 2018-07-03 to 2018-07-10**, but RegCM's global dates must cover the whole period,
   like we did for the :doc:`uncoupled setup <../../component-wise/regcm/preprocess>`.

   Change RegCM's ``gdate*`` to:

   .. code:: fortran

      gdate1 = 2018070300,        ! Start date for ICBC data generation
      gdate2 = 2018071700,        ! End data for ICBC data generation


   and the ``restartparam`` namelist as follows:

   .. code:: fortran

      !
      ! Model start/restart control
      !
      &restartparam
       ifrest  = .false.,    ! If a restart
       mdate0  = 2018070300, ! Global start (is globidate1)
       mdate1  = 2018070300, ! Start date of this run
       mdate2  = 2018071000, ! End date for this run
      /


   Also adapt SYMPHONIE's ``datesim`` in ``notebook_time.f``, and OASIS's ``$RUNTIME``
   in ``namcouple`` (with one week in seconds, i.e., 604800).

   Lastly, make sure the right restart files are accounted for by adding this line to
   ``job-spinup.sh``, just before launching:

   .. code:: bash

      cp -p oasis/restart_20180703/*.nc .


   Of course, this goes with a ``namcouple`` ``$NNOREST`` section set to ``F`` (false).


.. dropdown:: 2. Securing grid files

   OASIS grid files has already been written by the
   :doc:`initialization run <initialize>`, thus we can **reuse them** instead of
   overwriting them with each simulation.

   Disable the ``l_write_grids`` logicals for RegCM and SYMPHONIE, then add the
   following line to the job file, besides those about restart files:

   .. code:: bash

      cp -p oasis/{areas,grids,masks}.nc .


.. dropdown:: 3. Configuring air-sea flux coupling for the models

   In comparison with the :doc:`initialization <initialize>` when only exporting fields
   were enabled, we now **enable exporting AND importing fields**. Adapt ``oasisparam``
   for RegCM and ``notebook_oasis_generic.f`` for SYMPHONIE accordingly, enabling the
   following:

   * **RegCM:**
      * ``l_cpl_im_sst``
      * ``l_cpl_ex_slp``
      * ``l_cpl_ex_taux``
      * ``l_cpl_ex_tauy``
      * ``l_cpl_ex_prec``
      * ``l_cpl_ex_ulhf``
      * ``l_cpl_ex_ushf``
      * ``l_cpl_ex_nulw``
      * ``l_cpl_ex_ndsw``
   * **SYMPHONIE** (in ``notebook_oasis_generic.f``):
      * ``l_cpl_im_slp``
      * ``l_cpl_im_taux``
      * ``l_cpl_im_tauy``
      * ``l_cpl_im_prec``
      * ``l_cpl_im_slhf``
      * ``l_cpl_im_sshf``
      * ``l_cpl_im_snsf``
      * ``l_cpl_im_ssrf``
      * ``l_cpl_ex_sst``

   In addition, we need to tell SYMPHONIE that it will retrieve its sea-surface fluxes
   from OASIS, instead of using external data. This is done by modifying
   ``flag_meteodata`` in ``notebook_airseaflux_s26.f``:

   .. code:: fortran

      flag_meteodata='oasisflux'       ! Meteorological model key (ecmwf glorys
                                       !                          [oasisflux oasisbulk])


.. dropdown:: 4. Minimizing outputs

   A spinup run is not typically a simulation we need very detailed outputs from. The
   models will stabilize, and **what we want to do is simply be able to check whether
   the simulation is going well, rather than to get terabytes of data for conducting
   complex analyses**. This way, we will configure a minimum number of outputs for this
   spinup run, planning to enable more/increase their frequency for the production run.

   .. tab-set::

      .. tab-item:: RegCM

         Open ``namelist-cpl_spinup.f`` and go to the ``outparam`` namelist. Let us
         only keep ``SAV`` (needed for restarting) and ``SRF`` outputs, and degrade
         the ``SRF`` output period to 12 hours:

         .. code:: fortran

            prestr  =     '',   ! string to prepend to output file names
            ifcordex = .false., ! Restrict to possible CORDEX variables
            outnwf  =     0.,   ! Day interval to open new files (0 = monthly)
            ifsave  = .true.,   ! Create SAV files for restart
            savfrq  =     0.,   ! Frequency in days to create them (0 = monthly)
            ifatm   = .false.,  ! Output ATM ?
            atmfrq  =     6.,   ! Frequency in hours to write to ATM
            ifrad   = .false.,  ! Output RAD ?
            radfrq  =     6.,   ! Frequency in hours to write to RAD
            ifsrf   = .true.,   ! Output SRF ?
            srffrq  =    12.,   ! Frequency in hours to write to SRF
            ifsts   = .false.,  ! Output STS (frequence is daily) ?
            ifshf   = .false.,  ! Output SHF (frequence is hourly) ?
            ifsub   = .false.,  ! Output SUB ?
            subfrq  =     6.,   ! Frequency in hours to write to SUB
            iflak   = .false.,  ! Output LAK ?
            lakfrq  =     6.,   ! Frequency in hours to write to LAK
            ifchem  = .false.,  ! Output CHE ?
            ifopt   = .false.,  ! Output OPT ?
            chemfrq =     6.,   ! Frequency in hours to write to CHE


      .. tab-item:: SYMPHONIE's ``GRAPHICS``

         ``GRAPHICS`` outputs are for instanteneous variables.
         Let us completely disable it.

         In ``NOTEBOOKS-cpl_spinup``, open ``notebook_graph``. Change the output period
         to a number of days that exceeds our simulation period, e.g., 30. Also, set to
         0 all variable switches below. The top of the file should look like this:

         .. code:: fortran

            ********************************************************************************
            Output fields for graphics:
            ./symphonie/GRAPHICS/                                             DIRGRAPH
            100 ! dim_varid
            1   ! 1> regular in time  2> dates defined in notebook_dateoutput    IDATE_OUTPUT
            30  ! 0.0416666666666666  ! gives the periodicity (in days) if the previous line = 1
            Note: the related subroutines are graph_out.F90 and netcdf.F90
            ********************************************************************************
            30 2D horizontal scalar variables                        GRH_NB
            0  Longwave, shortwave, heat fluxes                   1               GRH_OUT_VAR
            0  ssh tide amplitude harmonics                       2
            0  ssh tide phase harmonics                           3
            0  tide potential amplitude harmonics                 4
            ...


      .. tab-item:: SYMPHONIE's ``OFFLINE``

         ``OFFLINE`` outputs are for averaged fields. Unlike with the ``GRAPHICS`` stream,
         here we need to provide output frequencies in advance for all runs, i.e., spinup
         and production. Let us set up a daily frequency for the spinup run, and a
         3-hourly frequency for production.

         In ``NOTEBOOKS-cpl_spinup``,
         open ``notebook_offline.f``: you should see plain text lines at the very end
         of it, defining a period and a date. Set this part to two lines, stating
         a periodicity of 24 hours until 2018-07-10, then refining to 3 hours until
         the end of the planned production run:

         .. code::

            Note: 1- no outputs if periodicity <=0
                  2- When the lastest date is passed, we continue with the latest periodicity
            DO NOT MODIFY THE NEXT LINE AS IT IS THE SIGNAL EXPECTED BY S TO START THE TIME LIST!!!!
            Periodicity (hours) ! until yyyy / mm / dd / hh / mm / ss ! Don't touch this line
            24.                         2018   07   10   00   00   00
            3.                          2018   07   17   00   00   00


   .. tip::

      This strategy of disabling most outputs for the spinup can be very helpful in
      cases when writting out data takes time and/or space. For instance, if you run
      aerosols and atmospheric chemistry in RegCM, you should know how
      resource-consuming are chemistry and optics outputs. Disabling outputting these
      during such a run's spinup is thus a game changer.


.. dropdown:: 5. Configuring the ``namcouple`` in ``EXPORTED`` mode

   After linking every enabled coupling field between RegCM and SYMPHONIE, taking care
   of grid dimensions, signs, units and interpolations, the ``namcouple`` for this
   spinup run should be this:

   .. code::

      # This is a typical input file for OASIS3-MCT.
      # Keywords used in previous versions of OASIS3
      # but now obsolete are marked "Not used"
      # Don't hesitate to ask precisions or make suggestions (oasishelp@cerfacs.fr).
      #
      # Any line beginning with # is ignored. Blank lines are not allowed.
      #
      ################### -= FIRST SECTION =- ###################################
      $NNOREST
      # T (true) or F (false): make the restart file facultative, i.e. if absent
      # fields are initialized with zero values
      #
        F
      #--------------------------------------------------------------------------
      $NFIELDS
      # >= total number of field entries
      #
        5
      #--------------------------------------------------------------------------
      $RUNTIME
      # The total simulated time for this run in seconds
      #
        604800
      #--------------------------------------------------------------------------
      $NLOGPRT
      # Amount of information written to OASIS3-MCT log files (see User Guide)
      #
        0  0  0
      ################### -= SECOND SECTION =- ##################################
      $STRINGS
      # The above variables are the general parameters for the experiment.
      # Everything below has to do with the fields being exchanged.
      #
        RCM_TAUX:RCM_TAUY:RCM_NDSW SYM_TAUX:SYM_TAUY:SYM_SSRF 1 3600 2 restart_tau-sw.nc EXPORTED
        58 58 300 300 rcim symt LAG=+180
        R  0  R  0
        LOCTRANS SCRIPR
        AVERAGE
        BILINEAR LR SCALAR LATLON 1
      #
        RCM_PREC SYM_PREC 1 3600 3 restart_PREC.nc EXPORTED
        58 58 300 300 rcim symt LAG=+180
        R  0  R  0
        LOCTRANS BLASOLD SCRIPR
        AVERAGE
        0.001 0
        BILINEAR LR SCALAR LATLON 1
      #
        RCM_ULHF:RCM_USHF:RCM_NULW SYM_SLHF:SYM_SSHF:SYM_SNSF 1 3600 3 restart_lat-sens-lw.nc EXPORTED
        58 58 300 300 rcim symt LAG=+180
        R  0  R  0
        LOCTRANS BLASOLD SCRIPR
        AVERAGE
        -1 0
        BILINEAR LR SCALAR LATLON 1
      #
        RCM_SLP SYM_SLP 1 3600 2 restart_SLP.nc EXPORTED
        60 60 300 300 rcem symt LAG=+180
        R  0  R  0
        LOCTRANS SCRIPR
        AVERAGE
        BILINEAR LR SCALAR LATLON 1
      #
        SYM_SST RCM_SST 1 3600 2 restart_SST.nc EXPORTED
        300 300 58 58 symt rcim LAG=+180
        R  0  R  0
        LOCTRANS SCRIPR
        AVERAGE
        BILINEAR LR SCALAR LATLON 1
      ###########################################################################


Once all of this is set up, **save the** ``namcouple`` **file** with:

.. code:: bash

   cp namcouple oasis/namcouple-spinup


And now, ``job-spinup.sh`` should now look like this:

.. dropdown:: ``job-spinup.sh``

   .. tab-set::

      .. tab-item:: HILO

         .. code:: bash

            #!/bin/bash

            #SBATCH --job-name=spinup
            #SBATCH --partition='broadwell'
            #SBATCH --ntasks=80
            #SBATCH --cpus-per-task=1
            #SBATCH --time=25:00
            #SBATCH --output=slurm_%x-id_%j.out
            #SBATCH --error=slurm_%x-id_%j.err

            EXE1=regcm/bin/regcmMPICLM45_OASIS
            NPROC1=40
            INPUT1=regcm/namelist-cpl_spinup.f
            #
            EXE2=symphonie/bin/OASIS/symphonie.exe
            NPROC2=40
            INPUT2=symphonie/notebook_list.f

            ulimit -s unlimited

            module purge
            module load slurm/21.08.5
            module load intel/2019.u5
            module load hdf5/1.8.15p1_intel_64
            module load mvapich2/2.3.6_intel
            module load netcdf/4.6.1_intel_64
            module load PnetCDF/1.9.0_intel_64
            module list 2>./run_modules

            cp -p oasis/restart_20180703/*.nc .
            cp -p oasis/{areas,grids,masks}.nc .

            echo -e "Launching...\n"

            mpiexec.hydra -np $NPROC1 $EXE1 $INPUT1 : -np $NPROC2 $EXE2 $INPUT2


      .. tab-item:: CALMIP

         .. code:: bash

            #!/bin/bash

            #SBATCH --job-name=spinup
            #SBATCH --nodes=2
            #SBATCH --ntasks-per-node=36
            #SBATCH --ntasks-per-core=1
            #SBATCH --time=20:00
            #SBATCH --output=slurm_%x-id_%j.out
            #SBATCH --error=slurm_%x-id_%j.err

            EXE1=regcm/bin/regcmMPICLM45_OASIS
            NPROC1=36
            INPUT1=regcm/namelist-cpl_spinup.f
            #
            EXE2=symphonie/bin/OASIS/symphonie.exe
            NPROC2=36
            INPUT2=symphonie/notebook_list.f

            ulimit -s unlimited

            module purge
            module load intel/18.2
            module load intelmpi/18.2
            module load hdf5/1.10.2-intelmpi
            module load netcdf/4.7.4-intelmpi
            module load pnetcdf/1.9.0-intelmpi
            module list 2>./run_modules

            cp -p oasis/restart_20180703/*.nc .
            cp -p oasis/{areas,grids,masks}.nc .

            echo -e "Launching...\n"

            mpiexec.hydra -np $NPROC1 $EXE1 $INPUT1 : -np $NPROC2 $EXE2 $INPUT2


Make sure to empty SYMPHONIE's ``tmp`` folder, then **submit the job** and wait for
its completion.

Once completed, you should notice the files generated by the ``SCRIPR`` interpolation
library:

.. code:: console

   $ ls -1 rmp*.nc
   rmp_rcem_to_symt_BILINEAR.nc
   rmp_rcim_to_symt_BILINEAR.nc
   rmp_symt_to_rcim_BILINEAR.nc


**Save those files**, as well as the restart files written at the end of the simulation:

.. code:: bash

   mv rmp*.nc oasis/
   mkdir oasis/restart_20180710
   mv restart*.nc oasis/restart_20180710/


You ``oasis`` folder should now look like this:

.. code:: console

   $ ls -1 oasis
   areas.nc
   grids.nc
   masks.nc
   namcouple-init
   namcouple-spinup
   restart_20180703
   restart_20180710
   rmp_rcem_to_symt_BILINEAR.nc
   rmp_rcim_to_symt_BILINEAR.nc
   rmp_symt_to_rcim_BILINEAR.nc
